# Changelog

All notable changes to this project will be documented in this file.

The format is based on [Keep a Changelog][format], and this project adheres to
[Semantic Versioning][semver].

## Unreleased

### Added
* An explicit error message is issues when running Neovim versions < 0.5

<!--=========================================================================-->

## 0.7.1 &ndash; 2022-04-10

### Changed
* The command list passed to `jobstart()` (or `job_start()` in Vim) is now
  properly formatted
* A link to the `compile_commands.json` file is only created on a successful
  `:CMakeGenerate` and on a successful `:CMakeSwitch`
* Symbolic links are created using the CMake command-line tool `cmake -E
  create_symlink`

<!--=========================================================================-->

## 0.7.0 &ndash; 2022-03-16

### Added
* MS-Windows is now supported, but only using Neovim for now
* The new command `:CMakeStop` allows the user to stop the process currently
  running in the Vim-CMake console
* The new configuration option `g:cmake_console_echo_cmd` controls whether the
  Vim-CMake console should echo the running command before running the command
  itself
* The new configuration option `g:cmake_log_file` controls whether, and where,
  to store logs generated by the plugin


### Changed
* Code has a new internal structure, and cyclic dependencies are removed
* The Vim-CMake console terminal does not make use of an external Bash script
  any longer, now the plugin is fully written in Vimscript
* Fixed searching of root path and build directory location
* Detecting CMake version now works also for packages which are not called just
  `cmake` (for instance, the `cmake3` package in the `epel` repo)

<!--=========================================================================-->

## 0.6.2 &ndash; 2021-08-02

### Changed
* `-DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE` flag is now always added when running `:CMakeGenerate`
* The hashbang for `bash` in `scripts/console.sh` has been made more portable by
  using `/usr/bin/env`.

<!--=========================================================================-->

## 0.6.1 &ndash; 2021-06-19

### Added
* Set `bufhidden=hide` on the Vim-CMake buffer to avoid error E37 in some Vim
  instances.

### Changed
* Running a command does not result in jumping into the Vim-CMake window and
  back in the background, thus reducing the number of unnecessarily triggered
  events.

<!--=========================================================================-->

## 0.6.0 &ndash; 2021-04-14

### Added
* `g:cmake_build_dir_location`, location of the build directory, relative to the
  project root.

### Changed
* Usage of `:CMakeGenerate`, now build configuration directory and
  `CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE` can be controlled independently.

<!--=========================================================================-->

## 0.5.0 &ndash; 2021-02-22

### Added
* Implemented user autocommands `CMakeBuildFailed` and `CMakeBuildSuceeded` to
  customize behaviour after `:CMakeBuild`

### Changed
* Fixed bug that wouldn't make the console script run when Vim-CMake is
  installed in a directory that contains spaces.
* Make the `WinEnter` autocmd in console.vim buffer-local.
* Set correct source and build directories even when invoking Vim-CMake commands
  from subdirectory of root (source) directory.
* Internal implementation of `:CMakeGenerate` made more structured.
* Automatically set the configuration option `CMAKE_EXPORT_COMPILE_COMMANDS` to
  `ON` when `g:cmake_link_compile_commands` is set to `1`.
* Pass job callbacks directly to `jobstart`/`termopen`.

<!--=========================================================================-->

## 0.4.0 &ndash; 2020-10-13

### Added
* `g:cmake_generate_options`, list of options to pass to CMake by default when
  running `:CMakeGenerate`.

### Changed
* Fixed parsing command output in Vim to populate the quickfix list.
* Updated source code documentation format.

<!--=========================================================================-->

## 0.3.0 &ndash; 2020-09-01

### Added
* Quickfix list population after each build.

<!--=========================================================================-->

## 0.2.2 &ndash; 2020-07-18

### Changed
* Support for Airline is now provided in the vim-airline plugin, and disabling
  Airline's terminal extension is not needed anymore.

<!--=========================================================================-->

## 0.2.1 &ndash; 2020-07-15

### Changed
* Pass absolute path to `findfile()` when searching for existing build
  configurations.

<!--=========================================================================-->

## 0.2.0 &ndash; 2020-07-12

### Added
* `:CMakeSwitch` command, and `<Plug>(CMakeSwitch)` mapping, to switch between
  build configurations.
* `g:cmake_default_config`, the default build configuration on start-up.
* Print Vim-CMake updates when new version is pulled.

### Changed
* `:CMakeGenerate` can be called with build configuration as a direct option,
  e.g., `:CMakeGenerate Release`.

### Removed
* `g:cmake_default_build_dir`.

<!--=========================================================================-->

## 0.1.1 &ndash; 2020-06-11

### Changed
* `:CMakeBuild!` and `:CMakeInstall` now use the native `--clean-first` and
  `--install` CMake options.
* Fix error when vim-airline not loaded and polish statusline/Airline output.

### Removed
* `:CMakeBuildClean`, as `:CMakeBuild!` should cover most of the use cases, and
  `:CMakeBuild clean` can still be used.

<!--=========================================================================-->

## 0.1.0 &ndash; 2020-05-09

First version.

<!--=========================================================================-->

[format]: https://keepachangelog.com/en/1.0.0/
[semver]: https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html
